# "Referral Reward Programs and Customer Value in Digital Transportation Platforms" - Associated Code

The file "Thesis.R" contains the code for the differential customer value analysis within the paper mentioned above. The last edit of the code was at 10:09 AM on 06-30-2022.

**Methods covered**
- OLS
- Fixed-effects model / panel data
- Survival analysis - Kaplan Meier plots & Cox proportional hazards regression
- Survival analysis with time interaction (tt function)
- Negative binomial regression
- Poisson regression
- Age-based split-sampling

Plus:
- Mann Whitney Test
- Breusch-Pagan Test
- Hausman Test
- Schoenfeld Test
- Log-Log Curves
- Overdispersion test
- Winsorizing
- Log-transformation

**Why the used dataset is special**
- Non-contractual and always-a-share usership
- B2B2C setting of digital transportation platform and transportation agency
- High competition (winner-takes-it-all) and multi-homing / low customer lock-in
- Low level of product differentiation
- Dynamic industry with fundamentally contrasting user attitudes
- Innovative product

**Abstract**

This paper investigates the effectiveness of referral reward programs (RRP) as a tool to sustainably engineer network effects in digital transportation platforms (DTP). A DTP is an innovative offering constituting a B2B2C structure together with its underlying service providers. Using a dataset of 119,130 users of an emerging DTP, this paper assesses three hypotheses concerning the differences between referred and non-referred users in terms of (i) revenue (overall and over time), (ii) retention (overall and over time), and (iii) engagement. To the best of the author’s knowledge, these dynamics have never been validated within studies on public transportation before. Thereby, this study measures the increase of perceived value generated by RRPs across the customer base. Extant research proclaims the positive effects of RRPs on customer value in contractual and lost-for-good settings. This paper creates theoretical and practical value as it first examines and then highly supports the implementation of RRPs in semi-/non-contractual settings following the always-a-share assumption. As a notable share of digital transportation firms recently failed optimizing their resource allocation in electronic winner-takes-it-all markets with low customer lock-in, the practical relevance of this paper is underlined. The results show that users coming through an RRP spend 5.77 % more on average. This is valid on a short- and on a long-term horizon, as this difference even increases over time. RRP-acquired users are 11.66 % less likely to defect, while this difference persists over time. Further, the assumption of social contagion is likely to work for RRPs, as referred users refer over seven times more than non-referred users. RRPs positively influence the retention of whale users, which is an essential base for implications in freemium-like businesses. While the positive effect of RRPs is equally valid for the overall retention and engagement of younger and experienced generations, they fail to cause a significant revenue differential for Generation Z and Millennials. Surprisingly, RRPs even increase the risk of defection for experienced generations over time. Therefore, this paper finishes with suggestions that should be considered by research and practice when assessing RRPs in transportation and all industries with similar traits. Especially firms with innovative offerings should be aware of keeping the RRP’s functions of nudging the users into a referral and cannibal-izing organic word-of-mouth in balance.
